8.17.5 release notes (#6745)
elastic/security-docs: docs/release-notes/8.17.asciidoc

[[release-notes-header-8.17.0]]
== 8.17

[discrete]
[[release-notes-8.17.5]]
=== 8.17.5

[discrete]
[[known-issue-8.17.5]]
==== Known issues

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Duplicate alerts can be produced from manually running threshold rules 
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running threshold rules could produce duplicate alerts if the date range was already covered by a scheduled rule execution.
====
// end::known-issue[]

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Manually running custom query rules with suppression could suppress more alerts than expected
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running a custom query rule with suppression could incorrectly inflate the number of suppressed alerts. 
====
// end::known-issue[]

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Installing an {elastic-defend} integration or a new agent policy upgrades installed prebuilt rules, overwriting user-added actions and exceptions
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +

> When you install an {elastic-defend} integration or a new agent policy for this integration, all the installed prebuilt detection rules are upgraded to their latest versions (if any new versions are available). The upgraded rules lose any user-added rule actions and exceptions.

Reviewer: Missing the discover date. Also, should we order these reverse chron order so the newest ones appear at the top? 
```suggestion
On April 10, 2025, it was discovered that when you install an {elastic-defend} integration or a new agent policy for this integration, all the installed prebuilt detection rules are upgraded to their latest versions (if any new versions are available). The upgraded rules lose any user-added rule actions and exceptions.
```

Author: I'll add the date in a separate PR since this change would affect additional release note files outside of the 8.17.0 one. As for the other known issues, I'll likely remove them in the near future and fold them into the docs. [Here's](https://elastic.slack.com/archives/C071E7FCR1A/p1742908992998569?thread_ts=1742821691.182699&cid=C071E7FCR1A) the Slack thread on that.

*Workaround* +
To resolve this issue, before you add an {elastic-defend} integration to a policy in {fleet}, apply any pending prebuilt rule updates. This will prevent rule actions and exceptions from being overwritten.
====
// end::known-issue[]

[discrete]
[[enhancements-8.17.5]]
==== Enhancements

> * Ensures that the data view selector on the rule creation form shows data view names instead of their defined indices ({kibana-pull}214495[#214495]).

Reviewer 2: * {elastic-defend} will drop ETW and API events from trusted applications earlier, reducing CPU usage.
* Reduce the CPU usage of {elastic-defend} ETW and API events.

> * Ensures that the data view selector on the rule creation form shows data view names instead of their defined indices ({kibana-pull}214495[#214495]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensures that the data view selector on the rule creation form shows data view names instead of their defined indices ({kibana-pull}214495[#214495]).
* {elastic-defend} now drops ETW and API events from trusted applications earlier, reducing CPU usage.
* Reduce the CPU usage of {elastic-defend} ETW and API events.
```

====
// end::known-issue[]

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Installing an {elastic-defend} integration or a new agent policy upgrades installed prebuilt rules, overwriting user-added actions and exceptions
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
When you install an {elastic-defend} integration or a new agent policy for this integration, all the installed prebuilt detection rules are upgraded to their latest versions (if any new versions are available). The upgraded rules lose any user-added rule actions and exceptions.

*Workaround* +
To resolve this issue, before you add an {elastic-defend} integration to a policy in {fleet}, apply any pending prebuilt rule updates. This will prevent rule actions and exceptions from being overwritten.
====
// end::known-issue[]

[discrete]
[[enhancements-8.17.5]]
==== Enhancements
* Ensures that the data view selector on the rule creation form shows data view names instead of their defined indices ({kibana-pull}214495[#214495]).
* {elastic-defend} now drops ETW and API events from trusted applications earlier, reducing CPU usage.
* Reduce the CPU usage of {elastic-defend} ETW and API events.

[discrete]
[[bug-fixes-8.17.5]]
==== Bug fixes

> * Encodes the model ID into Amazon Bedrock connectors ({kibana-pull}216915[#216915]).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Handles the encoding of the model ID for Amazon Bedrock connectors that caused errors when using Application Inference Profile model IDs ({kibana-pull}216915[#216915]).
```
eh?

> * Adds a filter to the entity definition schema so it can be used to further filter entity store data ({kibana-pull}208588[#208588]).

Reviewer 4: The PR description makes it sound like an "Addition", but it's actually a fix for an API-only parameter that wasn't propagated everywhere it needed to be.

Suggestion below:

```suggestion
* Fixes an optional filter parameter to be passed into the entity definition schema, to further filter security entity store data ({kibana-pull}208588[#208588]).
```

Author: Small nit - removed "security" since it's implied.

```suggestion
* Fixes an optional filter parameter to be passed into the entity definition schema, to further filter entity store data ({kibana-pull}208588[#208588]).
```
